Final Fantasy Tactics

Best Combination 
     One of the best combinations of characters in the game also needs
good  skills  and equipment. Your main team should always have: Ramza,
Orlandu, Agrias, Beowulf, and Mustadio.
     For  Ramza,  make him master the monk class, then turn him into a
lancer and master that class, too.
     For  Orlandu,  you  can try making him a monk. just make him have
the  'equip  sword'  ability.  He can kickass with his monk abilities,
even  better  than  Ramza.  Make Orlandu learn all of these skills and
then  turn  him  back  into a holy swordsman. use the monk skills as a
secondary skill.
     For  Agrias,  fo  the same thing you did for Orlandu, except that
her monk skills aren't as strong as everybody else.
     For  Beowulf,  make him learn all of his temple knight skills and
then  turn  him into a samurai. Learn all of the skills, and then turn
him back to the temple knight. The skills should be useful, especially
the 'kiyomori' sword skill.
     For  Mustadio, do the same thing you did with Ramza. At the start
of  the  game,  though,  you  might want him to learn all of the snipe
skills  and  then  become  a  master chemist. this is a good combo for
early stages.
     Note:  When  using  Orlandu,  Agrias,  and Beowulf, make sure you
duplicate  the  Excalibur  sword and give one to each of them. It will
give them the ability to go first plus hurt more with their attacks.
 
Chicken Trick 
     For  this  you'll need either a mediator or an oracle. A mediator
is  best. First learn any skill that lowers brave points. Then all you
have to do is lower someone's brave points below 10. They'll turn into
a chicken. They can't attack, they just run away.
     NOTE:  They gain 1 brave point every turn, so keep it under 10 or
they'll turn back.
 
Deep Dungeon "Lights On" Trick 
     If  you  have  been  to  the  Deep Dungeon in chapter 4, you will
notice  there  are  no  lights.  In  order to turn them on follow this
procedure:
   1.destroy all but one enemy and keep him n stop or sleep. 
   2.keep choosing "Wait" for all of your team 
   3.pretty soon, the defeated enemies will turn into crystals and
     will light up the room.
 
Defeat Velius 
     To  defeat  Velius,  bring along at least one summoner that knows
Lich,  a  chemist  with a Mythril Gun, and anyone with a strong attack
(like a knight or a ninja.)
     First,  move within four spaces of Velius and use wave fist. Then
you  should get another turn. Use wave fist again and then jump across
the water on the right.
     I  think  Velius  gets his turn next and he'll use Cyclops. While
he's  charging,  move your guys away from the target. If he targeted a
certain  person,  attack  him  directly  with  that person. Hopefully,
you'll  have a summoner left. Cast Lich (It'll hit him for around 500,
and he has 1000hp)
     By  now  he  should  be almost dead. Just use anything you can to
finish him off
 
Defeat Wiegraff 
     To  defeat  Wiegraff  at Riovanes Castle, become a monk and learn
WAVE FIST, CHAKRA and MOVE-HP UP. A Bracer will help as well.
     Start  out  by  getting as close to him as you can. Then use wave
fist.  He will then use Lightning Stab and run away. DON'T FOLLOW HIM.
Run  back  to  where  you started and use chakra. He will then move to
where he started. Now repeat all this until he's dead.
 
Defeating Balk 
     Balk  is  a difficult enemy to beat. At first glance, this battle
in  Murond  Death  City  looks  fairly simple: Balk is standing in the
midst  of  four  monsters  (one  of  each  of the following: Behemoth,
Hyudra,  Hydra,  and  Tiamat).  You  find out pretty quickly that this
battle isn't going to be one of the easy ones.
Here's my take on how to beat Balk and his crew of beasts.
     First, use the sword duping trick to make a number of "Excalibur"
and "Save the Queen".
     Change Ramza's job to Knight if you don't have him there already,
and  equip  both  the  swords  stated  above (must have the Two Swords
ability  from  the  Ninja job class [900 JP]). This will automatically
put him in [Haste] and [Protect].
     Have whatever ability you want for your secondary action ability.
Use  Blade  Grasp  for  your  Reaction ability, Two Swords for Support
ability, and Move-HP UP for Movement.
     NOTE: This combination of abilities and items works well with ANY
character,  but  you  may  not  have  spent enough time with everyone,
having Ramza the only one capable.
     For the rest of my team, I included Mustadio as an Engineer (with
Mythril  Gun),  Orlandu as Holy Swordsman (with Excalibur and Save the
Queen if possible), Agrias as Holy Knight, and a Ninja.
     Equip  the best armor you have (Reflect Armor works OK here). The
Defense  Armlet  is  the best accessory to have (so Balk can't use his
Snipe  skills  on  you),  but Rubber Shoes (accessory) are useful when
Balk  tries  to  shoot  you  with his Lightning-aligned Blast Gun. Use
whichever  is  handy,  but  equip  the  Defense Armlet(s) on your best
character(s).
     Use  Mustadio's "Snipe" ability on the monsters to paralyze them.
Pick each one off in turn with Ramza and the Ninja going up close with
Two  Swords, while Agrias and Orlandu get them with Lightning Stab (or
the best skill you have).
     Note:  You  can  just  attack  the  Behemoth  until its health is
"Critical".  It'll  leave  you alone. The three other monsters can hit
you  with  their firey breath (and from fairly far away), so make sure
you kill them off completely.
     You   can't   paralyze  Balk,  so  you  have  to  concentrate  on
surrounding  him.  He  runs away easily and can hit you with his Blast
Gun,  so  go  after him quickly (once you've eliminated the monsters).
Try  to  break his Blast Gun first with Orlandu's Hellcry Punch. After
that, he's easy to defeat with ANY ally. Good luck!
 

Duplicate Weapons 
     Set  the  Ninja  "Two  Swords" skill on anyone. Equip a shield in
their right hand, and the item you want duplicated in their left. Nnow
go  to  a  shop that sells the items you want duplicated, choose "BEST
FIT"  and  buy  them.  Next, go to the formation screen and remove the
items. You should now have two of the item you had in the left hand.
     For  example, to duplicate Excaliber, go to Lionel castle's shop.
You'll get a second Excalibur for only 10 gold!
 
Easy Level Gain and Job Points 
     Before  you  can  do this you'll need to learn ACCUMULATE and (if
possible)  the  JP-UP  skill. You also need at least one monk with the
CHAKRA skill for this to work.
     Walk  across  any green dot until you are attacked, then kill all
but  one  enemy. Next, find five squares that form an + and are on the
same  height  level.  Have the monk stand in the center with all other
characters  in  the  adjacent squares. Use accumalte over and over and
when your attacked just use chakra to gain back your health. Repeat as
desired.
 
Equipment Tip 
     When  fighting  battles  against  other  humans, be sure to check
their  equipment.  Sometimes  they have items not available in stores.
Use a mediator to invite them into your party and strip them after the
battle, or use a thief to steal their belongings.

Gain 5 or more Levels in One Fight 
     You  know how you get exp with one hit? What if your character is
so  strong, it kills with one hit. What if you can hit someone over 20
times without your guidence and safely return home. What you need is a
wizard, and an oracle or mediator.
     What  you  do  is  you  turn  your enemies into frogs. It is time
consuming,  but  it  is  worth  it. (You can increase chances by using
oracle  "pray faith." Once that is done. and I know this sounds weird,
turn  your strong character into a frog. Then with oracle or mediator,
put  him  into  berserk.  This  will allow him to fight on auto-battle
without running away. Keep your character well healed.
     Move  the  rest of your characters far away from the fight. Frogs
VS  Frogs. Put them on auto battle in "Run like a rabbit" mode so they
don't interfere. They shouldn't interfere.
     Leave  it on over night. By morning that character will rise 5-10
levels, and have over 2000-5000 jp points.
 
Get Cloud 
     This  tip  must  be done during Chapter Four. Not that you should
have about six empty spaces in your formation screen before attempting
this.
     Go to Zeltennia Castle and listen to the rumor called
"Cursed Island"
     Buy  a  flower from Aeris at Zarghidas Trade City then go to Goug
machine  city with Mustadio. The screen will fade and go to a scene of
Mustadio, Ramza and a steel ball.
     Go  to the bar in Goland Coal City and listen to the rumor of the
"Ghost of Colliery"
     After  this,  go to Lesalia Imperia and the screen should shown a
scene of a bar. When you leave, invite Beowulf to join your party.
     Now  that  you  have Beowulf, go to Goland Coal City and you will
fight 4 battles here and save Reis. After you save Reis you will get a
Zodiac Stone that will trigger the steel ball.
     Return to Goug Machine City again and add the Robot to your party.
     Now  that  you  have  the  robot, go to Nelveska Temple. You will
fight  another  robot  kill him and you will recieve a stone that will
bring Cloud to your world.
     Now  go  back  to Goug Machine City and you will trigger the time
portal  machine and it will suck Cloud from the future bringing him to
your world.
     Now  go  to  Zarghidas Trade City and save Cloud from the thieves
that  are punking Aeris. Note: if this part didn't work make sure that
you killed Dycerag and his Zodiac Soul Adramelk.
     When  Cloud  joins your party all he can do is defend and attack.
You'll  need  to  find his Materia Blade so that he can use all of his
limit attacks from Final Fantasy VII.
     The  Materia  Blade  is located in the Bervania Volcano. Set your
party's  on  Move-Find Item Then go to the highest tall rock and go to
the top of it.
 
How to get the Chaos Blade 
     On  level  nine  of  the  Deep Dungeon you should fight a team of
ninjas.  Ready  your CATCH ability. If you're lucky, one of the ninjas
will throw a Chaos Blade at you. If you catch it you get to keep it!

Immortal Female 
     To have a female that cannot turn into a crystal or treasure box,
you  must  have the Chantage perfume (stolen from Meliadoul in Chapter
4)  and  a character skilled as a ninja, or have a Vanish Mantle as an
accessory.
     Put  the  Chantage perfume on any female character, and make sure
the  Ninja  has  the  reaction skill of Sunken State (or equip him/her
with the Vanish Mantle)
     Go  into  battle,  and  hit  the Ninja until he uses Sunken State
(unless he has a Vanish Mantle) then make your Ninja run away after it
is transparent (not acting!)
     You  will  notice that your female character, after dying will be
revived as soon as her AT reaches 100. This will happen every time she
dies! It is better to have someone like Agrias use this technique!
 
Instantly Kill Undead 
     To  instantly  kill  an  undead  (ghouls, skeletons, etc), simply
throw  them  a  Phoenix  Down.  You  will  never  miss and they'll die
instantly!
     Warning:  When  you  kill undead this way a timer will appear. If
you  don't  finish the game before the timer reaches 0 the undead will
rise again.
 
Mime Job 
     The  requirement  for  the job mime is level 8 item user, level 8
beginner  knight, level 5 summoner, level 5 talker, level 5 Fu-sui-shi
(Element user) and level 5 dragon knight.

Mini-Games - Japanese 
     Sometimes  when  you go to the bar and accept a mission, you will
get  a  book.  You can use that book to play a little mini game. There
are four books in all.
     Note: This tip only works in the Japanese version.
 
More Powerful Ramza 
     For  a more powerful Ramza, have him master the squire class then
switch  him  to  the  ninja  class  and have him master that too. Then
return  him  to  the  squire  class  and equip him with the two swords
ability.  Because  of  his  special squire abilities he can wear heavy
armor  and  helmets.  Because  of  his natural H.P bonus in the squire
class  his max H.P should go up almost 100 H.P! This tip works best in
late ch.3 to ch.4.
     NOTE:  When  you  get  T.G  Cid  at  the end of the 3rd. chapter,
duplicate his excalibur and put one in each of Ramza's hands. If he is
at  a  good  level and has a high attack power, he can attack for 350+
points of damage each hit!
 
Music Test - Japanese 
     In  the  Japanese version, enter your name as B-G-M-Ki-Ki-Ta-I to
access the Music Select screen.

Raise Bravery Permanently 
     When  you reach chapter two, purchase the Square ability CHEER UP
for  Ramza.  Once  you've  acquired  it,  go into battle and use it on
everyone  on  your  team.  It  will temporarily raise their BRAVE by 5
points, and provide a permanent 1-point increase.
     You can get your Brave up to 97. This works great if you have the
Blade  Grasp  skill because the enemies will only have a three percent
chance of hitting you!
 
Ultimate Summon 
     After  beating  the battle in the holy land of Myurond, go to the
seaport  Wo-jirius.  Following  an  short  event you can go into Dieve
dungeon,  and from the tenth floor of the basement you will be able to
learn  the  ultimate  summon  (equivalent to Knights of the Round from
FFVII.)

Weigraf and Velius: Two Birds with One Stone! 
     When  you  encounter  Weigraf  for  the  last time(just before he
becomes   Velius)   you   cankill   him   easily  by  following  these
instructions:
     Make  sure  Ramza  is  a Squire with two sword ability or a Ninja
with HP Restore and the support skill Guts equipped.

     When  you  start  the  battle it's just you (Ramza) and Weigraff.
Don't  attack  him,  instead  keep  away  from  him  and  use Yell and
Accumilate repeatedly when it's your turn.

     Eventualy  this  will raise your speed and level high enough that
you  don't  have  to  worry  about  his  Lightning Stab or Earth Slash
attack.

     When you are getting 3 to 4 consecutive turns in a row (Check the
AT  list) wait until the beginning of the next cycle then attack. Your
two-sword  ability should kill Weigraff in one turn and Velius will be
dispatched before anyone else even gets a turn.

     This  should  make  what was the hardest battle in the game quite
simple. Good luck!
 
Zodiac Stones 
Aries, acquired after defeating Wiegraf. 
Taurus, Found hidden in Goug Machine city. 
Gemini, acquired after beating Duke Elmdor in Limberry castle. 
Cancer, acquired after beating the steel giant. 
Libra, in the possession of thunder god Cid. 
Scorpio, acquired after vanquishing Draclau. 
Sagittarius, The high priest gives this stone to Meliadoul. 
Capricorn, Acquired after defeating Dycedarg. 
Aquarius, found in the deep coal mine in Goland. 
Pisces, given to Alma by Izlude while he was dying. 
Serpentarious, Elidibs has it in the last deep dungeon level. 
Leo, this stone is acquired by killing Vormav. 
Virgo, Altima possess the last stone in the Graveyard of Airships. 
 
Crystal Abilities 
     When  an enemy human character dies and turns into a crystal, and
the ability command appears when you step on it. If you select ability
and  it  gives  you  a list of abilities you can learn, (fire, fire 2,
fire  3  etc,  I discovered a way to get every ability there. When you
select  ability,  and  it gives you the list, go to the very bottom of
the  list and select the bottom ability listed. Then check the persons
abilites  that  they  can learn and you should have every ability that
you could learn from the crystal.

Deep Dungeon - Lights On (Alternate) 
     Another  way  you to turn the lights on in the Deep Dungeon is to
have  a  character  with  the  Teleport ability. When you click on the
character (even when it's not his or her turn) the field lights up.
     When  it's  not  the  Teleporting  character's  turn, press the X
button with the Teleport spell.

Hint: Fast Job Level Up 
     This  requires  one  character that has the Knight Skills, "Speed
Break"  and  "Power  Break".  Everyone else can be any class, but they
must  have  the  Squire  Skill, "Throw Stone". It may be good to equip
them with the "JP up Ability" as well.
     Enter  an area where monsters are weak (like the Mandalia Plains)
and  leave  one  monster on the field, but wound it with the Speed and
Power Break skills. This causes the monster to hardly take any action,
leaving  all  your  other members to throw huck stones at one another,
and watch them become masters in no time!

 
